Every year, thousands of people accept the good news and transform their lives for the better.
This is possible because Jehovah blesses the efforts of millions of kingdom publishers around the world.
People like America and Paula.
They face challenging territories, fierce persecution and their own physical limitations.
But nothing can hold back the good news.
It keeps on increasing and bearing fruit, even in those who couldn't be further from Jehovah.
Just like I was.
Growing up, I wasn't really religious.
What interested me more was getting rich.
In Africa, especially Ghana, many people are poor.
I saw people leaving my community to work overseas.
And after coming back, they had an amazing life.
Like they had everything.
So whenever I saw those kinds of people, I would just stare at them.
I think, wow, if that were me coming back home, I would be super happy.
The truth is, I really began to envy them.
I wanted to get a house, build my own house, and buy my own car.
I wanted other people to look up to me and see that I was somebody important.
I was completely selfish.
I was greedy because I was only thinking about myself and how to get rich.
Well, greed is what drives injustice.
In Italy, around the end of the 60s and the early 70s,
crime and corruption were at all levels.
So naturally, there were protests against the abuse of power.
I was a young man at the time.
I had a very strong sense of justice.
So when I found out that Jehovah would establish a government
and administration that would eliminate all injustice,
it gave me real peace.
It was one of the things that helped me to draw closer to Jehovah.
The brothers often spoke to me about Jehovah's love,
but what drew me to Jehovah the most was his justice.
That was at first, but of course later on.
I also learned other wonderful aspects of his personality.
I was baptized, and it was really a great blessing to meet my wife, Paola.
We always agreed that we wanted to spend our life together in the preaching work.
Our first assignment in special full-time service was in a town in the Italian Alps.
The biggest challenge was how difficult it was to walk in the territory.
It was something that worried me quite a bit,
because my left leg is affected by polio and I wore brace.
And my crutches limited how much I could do.
There were some very steep steps.
And some of the roads were accessible only by foot.
When I saw it, I began thinking, well, you know, can I even do this?
It was a real workout, but I was happy to do it because I wanted to share the good news.
And sometimes the people who lived there actually listened to you,
so it was worth all the effort.
Every single day I was imagining what my life would be like if I lived abroad.
I was constantly thinking about what I would do when I got there.
Sometimes when I was asleep, I would dream that I was in Europe.
But when I wake up, I was still stuck in Africa.
I was saying, I'm going back to sleep so I can keep dreaming.
When I started my journey to Europe, I was around 19 years old.
That was when I crossed the desert.
After sometime traveling, our driver told us the car's out of fuel.
We were frightened because we were in the middle of the desert.
We didn't know our way forward or our way back.
It got to a point that we all were running out of food and water.
One night, a man who was traveling with us cried the whole night.
And then he died.
So we decided we should bury him.
But after that, we wondered who would be next.
We spent 22 days in the desert.
But nothing, not even that man's death, was going to stop me from reaching my goal.
I was so determined to get rich.
I didn't even care if it killed me.
We crossed the sea in a tiny boat.
I didn't even know how to swim.
I was just praying that God would help us to arrive safely.
There were days when I woke up with, I don't know, a pain in my back or other parts of my body.
And it wasn't easy because often we would receive assignments in mountainous areas of Italy.
Or some that involved a lot of hiking.
And I thought to myself, well, what's this all about?
I've got a bit of a problem.
Why am I here in an assignment like this?
But he said to me,
My undeserved kindness is sufficient for you.
For my power is being made perfect in weakness.
For when I am weak, then I am powerful.
What a beautiful verse.
In the end, where tools in Jehovah's hands.
And to Jehovah, it doesn't matter if the tool has some dent or some kind of imperfection.
What matters to Jehovah is that we allow him to use us.
And in this way, we become useful tools who are able to carry out his purpose.
What an incredible privilege it is.
It's something marvelous.
I was so happy when I made it across the sea and finally arrived in Europe.
But quickly, I became disappointed.
I saw that money doesn't grow on trees as they made me believe.
Everything they told us back in Ghana and the end, it wasn't true.
It was all lies.
They exaggerated about everything.
I was barely making any money.
So I started hanging around with some people who were selling drugs.
That was when eventually I started to sell some drugs too.
As time went by, my business grew because people were buying for me.
Things were going well.
And I was making money.
I wanted to send this picture to my family in Ghana for them to see that things were getting better for me.
I bought a nice car.
I was building my house.
I was getting married.
I was a young man.
That's all you need.
So I thought, when you have all these things, you're good to go.
That's what life's all about.
Until one day, everything changed.
There was night time.
I was asleep.
And I heard someone knocking on my door.
I thought, at this time of night, and it was the police fully armed.
There was nothing I could do about the charges that were raised against me.
They had proof of everything.
I was placed in a cell far away from everyone else.
So I couldn't even talk to anyone.
There was no one to help me.
I had no one, apart from my wife, who would visit when she could.
I was hopeless.
Because of a series of accidents that have happened to me in the last few years,
well, I guess my legs got even weaker.
From that moment on, I've had to use the chair.
I can't do what I used to.
But when I focus on what Jehovah is asking me to do,
my own problems become much smaller.
And after a day in the ministry, you look back and it gives you this incredible feeling
as if you have been flying.
But those hoping in Jehovah will regain power.
They will soar on wings like eagles.
They will run and not grow weary.
They will walk and not tire out.
I have the privilege of preaching in prisons.
The fact that you can still share the good news.
It gives you a sense of peace.
And you feel privileged to have shared something so meaningful with another person.
And over time, you see them make changes and they too begin to fly
because they overcome the problems they're facing.
Well, it's wonderful.
I began to understand what it really means to regret.
So I wanted to change my life around for good.
But who was going to help me?
It was only God I could ask.
I asked for a copy of the Bible and they gave it to me.
I was reading it.
And one day I read Psalm 103.
And that Psalm really touched my heart.
As far off as the sunrise is from the sunset,
so far off from us, he has put our transgressions.
As a father shows mercy to his sons,
Jehovah has shown mercy to those who fear him.
For he well knows how we are formed, remembering that we are dust.
I came to realize that everything I had done,
all the sins I had committed, God could actually forgive me for them.
I was thinking the sunset on the water,
it's kind of like the light of truth shining on our life.
Yeah, beautiful.
The power of the good news.
It's really, my life has been transformed.
Like when a caterpillar changes into a beautiful butterfly.
You know, Paulo?
Yeah.
I remember the first day I met you when you came to visit the prison.
I was so happy.
From that point, when we started our Bible study,
you have always been like a father to me.
And I will never forget all the hard work
and sacrifices you made for me.
And Freddie, one thing that I really appreciated
is how you were able to help your family.
Yeah.
Do you see this photo?
Paulo was the one who went to the hospital and took this photo.
Really?
Yeah.
And he brought it to me in prison.
I really need to thank him then.
Yeah.
After I was released, I was looking forward to seeing you grow up
and choose a different path than the one I took.
You know, Rubin, when you were very small, just a little baby,
I always took you with me to the meetings.
Your mom wasn't a witness back then,
but I never left you at home.
Your mom will prepare your milk.
I would take a few diapers and put everything in the bag.
I'd pick you up and take you to the meeting.
Literally, I know that something so good
would come from all that effort.
I never thought that things would turn out this way.
At one day, you and I would be serving Jehovah together.
Now, I see that Jehovah was listening to all my prayers.
Apollo, you plan at one seed, and now look,
all my family, we're all happily serving Jehovah together.
My wife, my daughter, her husband,
my grandson, and my son, Rubin.
I'm so grateful that Jehovah has done all of this for me.
Fred, I really appreciate all your efforts.
I have seen the power the Scriptures have on people.
I've seen the power they had on you.
Yeah, little by little.
Even now, I'm still making many changes.
I'm a work in progress.
Me too.
I know how the good news is bearing fruit
and increasing in my life.
And it's having the same effect,
even in lands where the kingdom preaching has been opposed.
My family came to settle in the country of Georgia.
So growing up in a culture different to my own,
I never felt like I really fit in.
But I remember when I attended a meeting for the first time.
It was an amazing feeling because when I walked in,
I was immediately accepted as if I were a member of the family.
It was like being with old friends.
They welcomed me with so much warmth and love.
And then the persecution started in Georgia.
I wasn't baptized then, but I could see with my own eyes
exactly what Jesus had foretold that his people would be persecuted.
During a meeting, a religious group broke in
and started to beat the brothers and sisters furiously.
They lit a fire and burned the literature in front of us.
The police did nothing.
We felt defenseless and vulnerable.
After the first attack, then there were more.
We even faced aggression from householders.
Despite the fact that there were so many attacks,
what was really amazing was seeing how the brothers and sisters looked after each other.
Come in. It's so good to see you too.
Nina was my Bible teacher.
She helped me understand the truth.
You know what I remember?
Back when I was an unbaptized publisher, we were preaching together.
We had just started the ministry that day.
On one of the floors in the building,
I don't remember which floor a woman rushed out with a mop.
I know, I remember that.
And she was trying to beat us with it.
But do you remember? You protected me.
I was just thinking about that a couple of days ago.
Yeah.
It was something that happened so often.
It was a really difficult time.
There was a moment when I thought I couldn't continue because I was afraid.
But you know, then I felt such strong support from our brotherhood.
I was so happy to see your baptism day.
Yeah.
We were always like one big family.
Yeah. It's true.
Our brothers needed courage.
What was happening in Georgia was extreme.
There was this breakaway group of fanatic orthodox.
And they had the full support of the church and the government.
Our assignment was to find some legal means to put an end to the campaign of violence
that had started against the brothers.
We went to court.
And in one case, while they're just getting ready for the court hearing,
the whole mob comes and begins attacking those in attendance.
The judge did nothing.
In fact, they wanted to present this as a fight between extremist groups.
It was ridiculous.
No weapon formed against you will have any success.
And you will condemn any tongue that rises up against you in the judgment.
Well, we are Jehovah's people.
We are like a nation.
And there is nothing, no force or power that will be able to stop us.
And as we continue doing his will, Jehovah is always with us.
Despite all those difficulties, everyone was so active.
Like, pretty much all the young ones in the hall were pioneering.
We used to get together and share our experiences and encourage each other.
Do you remember?
After we were huddled around the heater.
During that time, I remember also that we'd have to push in casual clothes
and not carry a service bag.
We'd get a plastic shopping bag and put the literature inside it
and then take it to service because we didn't want to draw attention to ourselves.
And we had to have the meeting secretly.
Just a few people would gather together.
But of course, the growth didn't stop.
I saw for myself that the congregations were increasing.
And a lot of people were learning the truth.
In fact, despite the persecution, my sisters, my mother, my brother,
even cousins and aunts got baptized.
Just from one person, now there are so many of you in the truth.
You are enough to fill a congregation, one big family.
The truth was really just blossoming.
And the Georgian people reacted very well to the preaching work.
Satan could see the growth and he had a ready tool to try to stop it.
Police assisted the mob to attack conventions.
And there were many, many, many attacks during that time period.
You could not even have a convention.
It was too dangerous.
Pretty well every weekend, you had a mob attack on a congregation.
Children as young as seven were attacked and beaten.
It was just relentless.
You know, when they attacked our congregation, it was a terrifying moment.
And I remember you had blood all over your face.
They dragged me into a crowd and the women were pulling my hair.
I had long hair then.
I remember one tall man took off his belt and began hitting us on the head.
I asked Jehovah, how do I escape this?
In that moment, you get this feeling of fear that you might not make it out alive.
We could never tell the brothers, you know, don't worry, you know,
in the next couple of years it will be over.
We could not know.
It was hard for them, but they simply continued.
It did not deter them at all.
Our brothers behaved exceedingly well.
A nationwide witness was being given.
And so Satan's tactic to crush the brothers did the opposite.
People began to have so many questions about why we were being attacked.
And of course, we were able to use this as an opportunity to share our beliefs and give a witness.
When Jehovah stands by you, along with Jesus and all their armies,
no opposer will be able to stop the work that Jehovah and Jesus are directing.
And then all of a sudden there was a change in government,
and the new government did not allow the mob attacks.
They took the ring leaders and arrested them.
But that's not a final solution because another government could take another position.
The ultimate goal was to get some decisions from the European Court
that would have a lasting effect in the country.
It's a lot of work to put that together.
And over the next several years, our job was to gather evidence, prepare petitions,
file them with the court, prepare the witnesses to testify,
and eventually, along with cases from other countries,
we could bring it to the European Court.
Their decisions were very, very strong.
We were given freedom to preach, to have our meetings, and even conventions.
And the special convention in 2018 was a huge victory for us.
When we met our brothers from other countries,
they said that the whole world had been praying for us.
And it suddenly dawned on us.
We realized nothing can stop the good news.
With Jehovah's help, I can fight with Jehovah's help I can win.
We are the victors. We win.
We courageously stay with Jehovah God and His people.
It was an amazing feeling being there.
I just couldn't hide my joy.
America, who would have thought that everything would have turned out like this?
From the persecution we faced to what we can do now?
I know. I thank Jehovah every day for that.
I feel so grateful. And you know, I just want to say thank you.
For all you've done to help me learn the truth.
Oh, thank you, America.
Where would we be without the good news?
The good news transforms lives.
It gives us meaning.
It makes us better people.
And even if it's difficult,
if our health limits us.
If persecutors try to stop us,
if the changes our students need to make seem impossible,
Jehovah will help us to never give up
and sharing the good news.